Predicting Airbnb Ratings in San Diego 

Areas of interest (examining the relationship of AirBnB ratings with other factors):
1. Do certain property types have higher average ratings?
2. Does higher average proportions of reviews per month result in higher ratings?

San Diego is a beautiful city right by the ocean, and as summer vacation is approaching, we wanted to know which AirBnB would be the best for a short-term summer stay. We decided to look into the ratings given to San Diego AirBnB property and see what factors influence these ratings so that we can better understand why a certain property may have pros over another. We also hoped to note any interesting correlations between features of interest. By taking into account what factors are important for the rating score, we hope to not only help customers identify what they need and whether it is important or not, but also help hosts of these properties improve their facilities to receive a higher rating.

We can acquire DataFrames for AirBnB by either directly scraping from the website for review ratings and host information, purchasing it from AirBnB Insider websites (ex: https://insidebnb.com/, https://www.airdna.co/ etc.), or we can look online for previously cleaned AirBnB datasets on platforms such as Kaggle. We are especially looking to source the Kaggle dataset for [San Diego AirBnBs] (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/thedevastator/san-diego-airbnb-listings-august-2019) to better understand our question. This dataset has 76 columns and 13k rows, so there are plenty of
observations. The dataset also has a direct link to a downloadable .csv file that we can use which will assist us greatly with sourcing the information. We intend to then clean our data by eradicating any columns that do not fall into our features of interest, and after doing so, remove any data that contain null values or values that do not make sense in the context of the column (i.e., -$9999 for a rental price), to ensure we are working with complete data that is, hopefully, more accurate. The features of interest we have decided to include are the columns titled “amenities”, “first_review”, “host_neighbourhood”, “last_review”, “neighbourhood_cleansed”, “nightly_price”, “price_per_stay”, “property_type”, “review_scores_rating”, “room_type”, “number_of_reviews”.

In order to discover a conclusion for our proposed issue, we plan on running hypothesis tests to check for correlation between our features of interest, and some basic linear regression to see what features influence the rating score. We hope that by running different tests for correlation between different features, and by utilizing several visualizations, potentially such as boxplots, line charts, and scatter plots, we will be able to find trends and gain some insights as to the factors influencing the review rates of AirBnBs in San Diego. We are hoping that by running our hypothesis tests, we will be able to answer our proposed problems and
understand what predicts the rating for San Diego AirBnB properties. We expect to run a couple statistical tests and train a basic linear regression model. If time permits, we may even explore some more complex machine learning models and cross validate to find the best model. This may be useful for stakeholders of
AirBnB such as potential customers, existing hosts, and the housing market in general. As another potential for analysis, we would like to see if there’s any possible correlation between the location of a host and the rating of their AirBnB.
